HTTP htaccess Attack with Medusa
According to its authors, Medusa is
intended to be a
“speedy, massively parallel, modular,
vlogin brute forcer”.
We’ll use Medusa to attempt to gain access
to an htaccess-protected web directory.
First, we’ll set up our target, an Apache
webserver installed
on our Windows client, which we’ll start
through the XAMPP control panel.
With our services started, we’ll return
to Kali and explore Medusa.
We’ll attempt to gain access to an
htaccess-protected folder
named admin on our Windows web server.
We’ll use the rockyou wordlist for
this example,
which we must first decompress
with gunzip.
Next, we we’ll launch Medusa and
initiate the attack
against the htaccess-protected
URL on our target host.
We’ll attack the admin user,
with passwords from our rockyou
wordlist file,
and we’ll use an HTTP
authentication scheme.
In this case, Medusa discovered a working
password of “freedom”.
Let’s try out these credentials in
our browser.
Excellent, our Medusa attack successfully
retrieved the password for this directory.
Medusa has many additional options
and settings,
and can interact with a variety of
network protocols.
These can be displayed with the
-d option.
For more information about Medusa,
refer to your lab guide.